

The state of the knower is imposed on the object of knowledge. To save oneself from being ensnared by their current state they must be willing to remain in a perpetual state of uncertainty. Only then will the path to absolute truth be apparent.
4:26 AM

THE COMMOTORIUM I.E. THE COMMOTION EXPLORIUM AKA “THE COMA ROOM”

Billy P. in the commotorium - the commotion explorium - architecture made of long lasting word strands, frankensteined together. The cadavers of floating messages skittering and perishing in the air - “remember your belongings passanger” - as he rides the bus and maps the psyche.

Passanger; “Look here buddy, I appreciate you wanting to “persevere” or “preserve” or whatever you call that shit. But I honestly don’t like what you’re doing! Sitting there with that pen and all… Writing away…

What the fuck are you writing?!

Billy; Well… if you give me a moment to clarify, I think it’ll become abundantly clear.
You see, my dear - I hope I can call you that… “dear,”
it’s endearing yaknow?

Anyway.

Just think for a minute,
every moment that passes by, where does it go?

Like when you write something down and then erase it. Where does it go?
I don’t know… You sure as hell don’t know…

But I’ll let you in on a hunch I have, I don’t think they “vanish”
- cease to exist - no…
They continute to ripple onward, compounding and doubling and increasing in volume.

And so… I tell you, I have become infected with this whole business, so much so that I carry a pen with me everywhere I go.
It’s my attempt to record a sliver, so that maybe those in the future can get an idea of what the river once looked like…

Passanger; “Oh… Well… Yea.
This is my stop though. Thanks. I guess…”
6:19 PM
Genesis

for posterity

the incemenation germination fertalization efflorescense decadence and ultimate decay of the billy pilgrimage enterprise aka a short story about the development of a story that grew into a novel yet unwritten

as was the case i’m laying on a bench in the gym of a juvenile prison

for several months i would drift off into naps and upon awakening find a poem fully formed on the edge of my awareness

this particular day all i remember was the phrase “flight of the pheonix” transforming into “plight of the phonics”

and it stuck - over a few weeks i made notes of a potential thematic musical album i’d create upon release using some of the musical ideas that i developed

i had been under the sway of these deep archytpal symbols - this one incident where i tried to paint a desert, hated the outcome, poured hand sanitizer on the canvas, erased the junk, and ended up with an image that more closely resembled what i had in mind

i impulsively drew two small figures traveling in this barren scene

that continued to plauge my mind - who were those two? obviously one of them was me, but the other?

that role was filled by a few people as time elapsed

at first i thought it was my good friend hunter - i had recently finished reading this sufi book that made a distinction between “sober” and “drunken” sufis and i was undecided as to whether i was drunk or sober….

(i realize anyone reading this is going to have great difficulty fully connected all the loose strands - there’s just far too much information compressed in my memory to begin to adequately treat with words. and i think it may be better this way. anyway… digression…)

so me and this unknown figure wandering in the desert of a discarded painting

one calm afternoon in the art classroom only myself the teacher and the spanish teacher from next door occupied the room

having a sense of reverence for the man - many conversations. very humbling story.

i asked him “what does the image of the desert signify?

he told me “leaving this world”

_____________ end desert theme

next came the issue of the door

my bunk mate (we slept on bunk beds) asked me this riddle i had heard before but simply could not remember the answer nor figure it out anew

about two guards before two doors - one always lying one totally honest and having one question to determine which door the treasure lay behind

that incident initiated this deep internal crisis i’m not sure i can even now articulate…. just an intense feeling of collapse internally - i was deeply troubled by this innocent riddle

skip to another moment and i’m asking the english teacher i had met a few times this vague question about doors and drunken sufis and my friend hunter…..

skip again and the two doors collapsed into one single door located in the desert

skip yet again and i’m sitting on the floor outside the office of the cleaning crew in the isolation unit and the door that’s there suddenly becomes a physical manifestation of this allegorical door that’d been occupying my psyche

_________ end door theme

and so now these themes of “plight of the phonics” “the desert” and “the door” interwove into this amalgamous soup that yet had no name - just a latent pool of creative fertility

realse from prison. alexandria. school. english 112. slaughter house five.

slaughter house five.

let me tell you what happened with that book. basically the dissociated nature of time billy experienced coupled with the whole tralfamadorian time sense and shit left this lasting impression of a timeless time

of an eternal moment

of being trapped in amber - yet expereincing a dissociated collection of moments that could be strung together in hindsight

added to the overwhelming sense of unfulfilled creativity all these strands

doors deserts movement memory time moments eternity
condensed into a poetic revelation (the famed key to the book)

-through the desert
-past the door
-abandon words
-waters of gracious reflection and song
-subtelty of the wind
-through the needles eye
-7 windows to an unseen sky
(not the full poem)

and that became the encrypted key for the entire thing
__________

it continues!

after the in amber project imploded on itself (HTTPS://SOUNDCLOUD.COM/INAMBER) i figured it was time to reorient myself away from music - thus billy pilgrimage became my defacto pseudonym - adapted directly from Billy Pilgrim in slaughter house five - and dump bucket for all the musical sketches and ideas i’d record or work on (i like the juxtaposition of a generic american name “billy” with the more universal associations with pilgrimage)

the musical projects under that heading were to thematically follow this large story arch where each album was itself a wordless book yet when taken all together each would simply be a chapter in the larger story.

this idea remains central.

as i said though, i was trying to distance myself from music - it easily becomes crippling - i was growing less seduced by it

billy pilgrimage’s pilgrimage though remained…. the music wasn’t capturing enough of the nuance and detail and depth of the actual experinces that were its inspiration so the next medium ultimately became words themselves

pen and ink

the poem serving as the kernel for the entire journey
growing into the table to content
the knowledge filling in the gaps between the themes
the experiences like sand grains fitting ever more tightly
all so seamless

a single book containing all of reality…..
each lesser book simply binding a faint trace. an etching of the internal majesty of the single book….

billy simply travels through.

adieu
1:57 AM
Universal Sea

I stood on the shore at night and felt an awesome fright
The sky and ground merged to one and the immensity of the sea terrified me
The cacophony of sound
The white noise and rolling waves
I again thought about what messages are irretrievably encoded in those waves
And imagined the entire universe the same way
Wavering between a fountain, a book, and a sea
1:03 AM
a single verse - the universe

This mystery will not end
This search for truth is fraught with error
This precious walk between death and life
Is filled with both awe and terror

One blind corner
Leads to two blind alleys
By now you’d expect the grand finale

Yet here I am
Still awake
Conscious of every breath I take

You say that God does not exist
Yet I sincerely ask - then why do we?

A random blur
A spontaneous out growth
A grandiose cruel cosmic joke
A fiction penned by some unknown author

“The universe” - is all you offer

And so I give you the benefit of the doubt
And labor away in calculation
Fields, strings, groups, codes, spheres, loops, and all other contortions

“The universe” - is all you say
Then carry on your merry way
And I envy you in your self satisfaction
As I ponder this “principle of least action”

And all my friends have grown and cried
Yet here I remain - with this resounding “why?”

Why me or you?
Or the universe?
I demand an answer in a single verse!

“ His command is only when He intends a thing that He says to it, “Be,” and it is.“
7:01 PM
a summary of cantor’s cathedral

a summary of the development of Cantor’s cathedral and where it fits into Billy’s Pilgrimage.

- after billy leaves the desert he enters the city of “new alexandria” - based on the ancient city of alexandria in egypt, as well as alexandria virginia, where i lived for a few years.

he finds himself in the company of a group of merchants - the head of them takes billy in as a guest and allows him to dwell in the back of his shop in exchange for a few hours work each day. The daughter of this merchant (based on a girl i fell in love with) runs an academy and takes a liking to billy - she invites him to a gathering she hosts called “the worlds fair”

it is there that billy encounters Sunyata and her guardian Omar Khayyam. They give him a book titled “cantor’s cathedral” - an odd book that chronicles the development of Euclid’s empire and the construction of the infinite cathedral.

—– in short, Euclid and his boyhood friend Georg Cantor have an intense lust for the infinite horizon and begin constructing an infinite structure where everyone inside roams in absolute silence. after an immense amount of time however the rule of silence can no longer be maintained and the echoes of speech between isolated peoples begin to travel through the infinite.

the poet omar khayyam and his nephew? (i’m not sure of the relationship yet) sunyata have found a way of escaping the cathedral
——-

it is after they escaped that they ended in new alexandria where sunyata shares a mutual friend with the merchant’s daughter. and it is through this mutual friend that billy meets the two and learns about the history of Euclid’s empire.

what makes things infinitely more complex is that Sunyata is actually the daughter of billy and the merchant’s daughter (as in the name i’d give to my daughter if i married the girl i fell in love with and we had a child….) only neither of them are really aware of this

nor do i know how it will play out in the development of the story

nor do i know exactly what that girl feels for me

nor does it really matter right now.

and that’s it i suppose….

oh yea! and because billy now knows about cantor and euclid’s empire - when he encounters the aged cantor in new alexandria he knows who he is.

the infinite cathedral of euclid and cantor is different than the infinite cathedral of cantor in new alexandria.

the former is a single structure with pillars stretched all across euclid’s plane. the latter is a normal cathedral, only that within each dust particle there is yet another cathedral….

“O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space.” - Hamlet
4:21 PM
Dedication

Within these pages is a noble attempt in futility… The colossal infinity that stretches before and after. The places, names, forms and faces that have come to be and pass. Monuments erected and crumbled in the sand. Written works and novel ideas. No human book could contain the transformations of the echoes through time… And yet here I am, pen to paper, etching away. For whoever may find this, in whatever realm, time, or sphere. This humble work - is dedicated to you my dear.

And so we begin - somewhere after genesis…
4:16 PM
riding the asymptote

hovering, sailing transcendently the single dimensional line carrying upwards - imagine the wake left by a boat, or maybe an endless zipper. There were no increments of time or distance, just a continual tunneling further and further.

First wave - objects familiar to the senses. Diving through layers of epiphenomena, tables, chairs, faces, organs, tissue, cells, nerves, molecules, shells and energy levels, hadrons, quarks, fields, strings, manifolds, further still to points along the number line, ever closer to zero.

The thin verge of nonexistence ever approaching. It’s quite impossible to really know the amount of time that had passed - no periodic processes occured at such scales. The approaching became a desert and he a pilgrim - the null sun ever fixed on the horizion.

eras passed without the slightest indication of advancement.
12:43 AM
fragment

laying on the ground merging into the sound the pulsing glow of a thousand nameless forms I cannot claim to know - in the forest the echoes reverse into geometric sequences and the laughter of the leaves appears in pentatonic shades of yellow. Thrown into the library of babel the pages proceed - feeding me into a coma on the newly created oklahoma peninsula. whatever it is or may be i endeavored to capture in rapture after rapture i now i see and think i know i see what i think somewhere i think it knows but the scribbles out pace the flowing…

on a sinusoidal laugh
1:02 AM
5/13 - the isle of birth

The days are constricting - the climate of the crew is akin to the end of a heavy storm - skies not quite clear. The fatigue is evident. I foresee a shift in wind soon. Captain Aaron assures us land is approaching. I’ve tried to subdue my self and remain content with the incessant swaying, but I must admit, my heart is relieved by the prospect of docking.

____

I stopped and dived into the rush of memory - frame after frame strewn out across the floor of my mind. The ship the pharmacy the pharmacy my health my family the ship the ship the house the house the nation the sea - all of it softly and subtely and menacingly rocking back and forth.

I have yet to speak my intent clearly, but as soon as land is reached I fear it will be time for me to strike out again. The colors of this passage are running off the canvas and it’s time for me to repaint.
1:35 AM
a momentary reflection

You see… I could feign this sense of continuity and coherence - put up this facade that a narrative thread were weaving the loose vignettes together - but I’d be a liar. And a liar has no place on this ship - as ironic as that may seem.

A loosely strung gang of people heading towards an ill defined goal - at times uncertain, at time unwavering along the way.

And let me clarify - there is no CONSCIOUS thread. As to whether in the ultimate end it will all have appeared nice and sequential to you (the reader) I will leave an unresolved matter.

Just know that the tralfamadorians taught me something valuable;

“There isn’t any particular relationship between the messages, except that the author has chosen them carefully, so that, when seen all at once, they produce an image of life that is beautiful and surprising and deep. There is no beginning, no middle, no end, no suspense, no moral, no causes, no effects. What we love in our books are the depths of many marvelous moments seen all at one time.” (footnote)
1:21 AM
Billy’s proposal

—- a sudden and growing fancy —-

“Let me propose this modest venture… I say, as the winds of fate change course, we grasp this current state of disarray and escape the tyranny of the past chapters - having now turned to dust - discard those pages and venture out into the eternally uncertain.

First - a ship, a vessel, a carriage, free from as many restrictions as possible

Secondly - a crew. A cook, some radio equipment, weapons, maps, wares, and whatever else one may need

Thirdly - Our destination? To the Algerian coast - or the eastern shores of Africa. Take your pick.

And finally - Trust in the One and absolute.
1:11 AM
Captain John/Jack Ward

“Here’s a scurvy world, and as scurvily we live in it… Where are the days that have been, and the season that we have seen, when we might sing, swear, drink, drab, and kill men as freely, as your cake-makers do flies? When we might do what list, and the law would bear us out in it? Nay, when we might lawfully do that, we shall be hanged for and we do it now?

When the whole sea was our empire, where we rob at will?”
12:54 AM
into the library/keeper of the vision

The pages, strands, ever distant islands woven together - reflecting infinitely two faces - the witness and the witnessed - all reality emerging from this reflection.

“Given a dictionary - let’s call it the “codex” - sufficiently large - all the knowledge contained in the library will be implicit within it. All things known and unknown”

“In truth Billy, it is through this codex that you have been travelling. Each realm apparently distinct, but simply a sliver of the whole manifesting itself to you.”

“Only through your stiving have you been able to attain this station of reflection - I will say you have neared the presence of the Exalted, but to limit the presence to only this moment would be to neglect every step leading to this. For the Fashioner has not limited himself to a particular location, but makes himself known through every created form.”

“Know this Billy - beyond this the return to the realms of manifestation will never be quite the same. It will all appear a hollowed dream. But this is how it must be - at least for now.”
6:29 PM
the merchant’s daughter

d; Hmm… Stupid boy. My father must see something in you if he’s keeping you as a guest. Money perhaps. You’d make a good door boy at my academy.

tell me, were you to lose all your sense but one, which would you chose to keep?

b; uh, my hearing. That way I could remain aware of my enviornment.

d; Spatial location, interesting. My father shuts his shop after sunset, meet me around the corner ten minutes after you hear him lock the door. I’ll show you around the city.

~~that night~~

d; What kind of name is “Billy”….

b; Where are we going?

d; shh

*silence*

b; and you?

d; hmm?

b; were you to lose your senses…

d; I adore the voices of other people.

My father thinks he has a hold of this city, this world, of me…
Large swaths of the year gone so he could “provide for his people.” Goods, books, knowledge? Bull shit? And what have they done in return for him? Nothing. If he could even taste the dirt that wavers under my feet… I swear. Every year I host an underground Worlds Fair - inventors/artists/writers/creators from across the worlds gather and exchange ideas and work - my father thinks he exchanges knowledge - he exchanges rocks.

Will you come Billy?
3:03 PM
sullen wandering

I was sullenly walking down the street one night, after one of those moments where the sandstorm of thought dies down and you’re left with standing in an open field. As usual, my head slightly bent down, feet coming in and out of view, rocks, gum, shoelaces, leaves, water, a shimmer. It was only a few paces after that it registered, I turned back and there it was, a tiny, nondescript shimmering speck…. I had never seen anything like that before. I tried to pick it up but nothing happened. I stood entranced for a moment, thought I must be delusional - I mean my head is never this quiet.. something must be up, yea? I carried on, but the rest of the walk seemed a tinge less worthwhile. I turned and went back home, repeatedly glancing back to see it was still there.

Anyhow, months passed, experiences piled on and the impressions from that night dulled. Until. Until one day I was sitting on the bus midday on my way back home from work. I had a book in my backpack I was mechanically reading, I decided not to open it up now though. I just wanted to stop being for a second. That’s when this women walked on the bus and sat in the row across from me. Too stunned yet again to really verbalize to myself what was happening. There the shimmer was, just kinda resting there on the end of her purse. I had to fight myself from trying to touch it. I wanted to ask her, but I thought to myself “she must know it’s there… right?” A glance to my left and there was an old man with the faint trace of a smile just sitting there. He didn’t seem to notice anything. Whatever…

then a series of dreams. then people started appearing in my life out of nowhere. then I lost everything. sitting in a holding cell somewhere in the backwoods of fucking virigina I’m looking at the ceiling and there it is. I reached up and sort of morphed into some weird ethereal being, but I was back on that walk, and back on the bus, and back in the library, and back in the cell. I knew absolutely that no one else could see this torturous whatever it was. So i internally resolved to renounce the currents of the phenomenal world around me and investigate whatever this thing was.

By it’s very nature I can’t tell you what it is. I can’t tell you what it’s not. I can’t tell you where it is. I can’t tell you where it’s not. I can’t speak about it. I can only speak/write around it. Not that I encompass it, not that it’s defined. Something like an aleph. Or the impression of counting without numbers or seeing without eyes or. something…. It’s something for certain. Can’t say for sure. Almost like a thread. one you begin tugging at, aiming to find the root. I’m still finding the root. I’m convinced there is no root. But i’m not convinced enough to abandon the tugging. Each inch reveals more. So I continue.

It’s something akin to climbing stairs, but as soon as you reach your desired floor you realize you’re only still on the bottom floor staring up at the stairs. Or more like, “you’re in a box” then you’re the box inside yourself. then the inner and outer box are really the same box but you’re still standing from inside it. Or maybe more like….

I don’t know…. this shimmer…. this faint little speck.

Grains of sand in infinitude
what similitude shall embrace?
cosmic grains juxtaposed with that
life giving lamp on the beach of eternity
The light of oneness pervades the sea, or
rather grains adrift in ethereal light
Light upon Light - what dim reflection,
what small conception can we attain?
Of that grand architect - adrift in
the grand design, a course inscribed through time
Each grain a shore with infinitely more
atoms of reflected light
and what a delight it certainly is
to reflect on eternal light
6:49 PM
destruction of knowledge/beginning of ayn yaqin [41;53]

Billy finds his way into the central library of New Alexandria - considered the crown jewel of the world’s knowledge, the epicenter of learning and culture.

Book after book begins to run, trickle, words, characters down the page like sweat drops. in and out of focus. little puzzle pieces tearing at the seams and crumbling. into ash. being carried down gently by a non existent wind. page after page merging into oblivion. his fingers combing and sifting as if trying to hold onto waters of life. in vain. book after book. his pace increased. heart rate. the sand returning, rising up around his feet. the adjoining shelves heat intesifying. the illusion of this realm crumbling. He had found the loose thread that was dangling and began pulling and would now not cease pulling until the whole fabric unravelled. The sand was up to his knees. Dragging along in incoherence he continued sifting and pouring… not a single word or verse registered.

This the womb of knowledge?

Could this really be what the merchants praised so highly?
12:30 AM
desert of the real [riffs]

“The sun was like a huge 50-cent piece that someone had poured kerosene on and then had lit with a match, and said, "Here, hold this while I go get a newspaper,” and put the coin in my hand, but never came back.“ - richard brautigan

—-
Shifting sands
ever distant lands
come to me then crumble
the hellish groan - an ever drawing rumble.

written plans and advertisements
hours idled in petty enticements
and flickering lights
sea soundscapes escape as well
click clack - nothing

hmm, swell…

—–
Anxiety sandpaper gnawing away at life’s marrow. Paper and words mirage wavers in the sun. Felt clenching jaw. We were explorers, cartographers, escapists really… or at least one would like to think.

It was sheer instanity; A portion would be completed; ordered, arranged, composed, lovely and admmirable, only to have shifted.

- Billy’s pilgrimage continues on however. It’s no longer uncertainty that plagues him, rather the lack thereof amongst others. Odd isn’t it? Not long ago he was on the other side of the veil. Found now in the tomb of scrawled words and paper thing shawls. All implicitly defined - all one has to do is just reach their hand out and lo!

——-
the roaring absence
the concrete slave sense
the "where’s my coffee?”
when pages sheer, and hours near
near to dissipation
the ink bound exodus

that’s certainly not enough

when the homeless beggar gives

in blacked heart shaved shiv
11:59 PM
with the merchants!

“you’d be wise not to speak in this city”

“he’s right boy, the walls whisper to you, listen loudly and you’ll hear everything you’re supposed to hear - nothing more. nothing less.”

“don’t listen to these fools”

“no, no, they speak the truth. Listen, and don’t trust your first glances!”

“lest you see his mother aha!”

“Don’t confuse the boy! Welcome to New Alexandria. Mother city of all knowledge - womb of humanity - anything you may need to know, and everything you never knew you needed to will found here. Heed with a grain of levity all these men have told you - they’re well intentioned. You’re welcomed as a guest in the stock room of my shop indefinitely inexhange for a few hours labor each day. [tbc]
11:47 PM
zeno dialogue [at the fountain]

z; Notice the fountain…
b; What of it?
z; Particularly the transformations of each glimmering droplet through the air. Can you identify a single one for any extended time?
b; I’m afraid not.
z; Notice too, how it seems the fountain never resides wholly in one instant, but is rather perpetually in flux.
b; This is indeed true… why is it so?
z; It is said it would not be fitting the majesty of the Creator to create but once, rather to create, and then perpetually recreate!
11:36 PM
zeno dialogue [memory of democritus]

b; Master Zeno!

z; yes my boy

b; master Zeno… I am very tired…

z; have you not rested?

b; no, not in that sense. I have been studying the works of the masters, and been very observant, but… It seems like I cannot hold to anything. Even the glimmers of understanding seem to vanish after some time.

z; ahh… Yes. Tell me. What is it you have been studying?

b; it’s very hard for me to say anymore, all I remember is the question that spurred the inquiry.

z; well go on then.

b; well… What am I? This leaf here, what is it? The change in day and night? The shadows cast on the ground? The buildings and markets? Our dreams? The words and wishes and ideas? The numbers? What is any of it? I have asked the others, some have given me answers, others have scoffed. But without fail the answers given are not satisfying, they only push the question farther into the background.

z; how so?

b; yesterday in the market, Democritus came to my fathers shop and chanced to see me musing over a small bug in my hand. He came to me and asked me a question

“Boy, suppose you were to tear that little creature in half, what would you find?”

“Blood.” I replied.

“Certainly. Now… If you were to take that blood and tear it once more, then?”

“I cannot say.” I replied.

“Very well… Let it be know, if one had the means to continue tearing, eventually he would reach an end. I call these indestructibles "atoms.” The world and all you know is composed of such.“

z; Yes I am familiar with Democritus’ idea, and then?

b; Well… For a moment I thought to destroy the bug in the hopes to confirm for myself whether this was true. But I chose not to. That night, my mind still mulling over this idea, I found no solace. I thought of how these might configure. I thought of how one may be able to transform one form into another. Yet, the truth or falsity of Democritus’ idea seemed to bring me no closer to the answer which I seek.

z; certainly not.

b; and I have read Einstein and Heidegger, debroglie, Bohr, Bohm, Socrates, plato, patanjali, Ibn Arabi, Sartre, Camus, Kant, Descartes, rumi, schrodinger, Euler, poincare, cantor, Godel, Hofstadter, khayyam, shakespeare, Dostoyevsky, Mandelbrot, Newton, Frege, Ptolemy, Feynman, kaku, Greene and many more… The names have all together evaporated.

And still. I seem to know no more or less.

z; certainly.

b; Master Zeno… What is anything?

z; I do not know my boy.
11:01 PM
cantor’s cathedral

“I wanted escape… or something akin to it. You know that feeling when you’re a child staring at a clean sandbox or blank sheet of paper? Maybe an unmarked notebook, that infinite potentiality, the symmetry after the placement of the pen. Just before any marks are made. That’s what I was after.

I slipped into a reverie one still noon and I was engulfed in a torrent of absolute and utter brilliance, the window before me extended well beyond my vision, I was overcome with such grandeur and majesty that the apparent flow of time totally went extinct. When I woke back every nerve in my body commanded me to construct this… I’ve been laboring ever since…”

Cantors cathedral. A mammoth light radiating through the window. Dust particles suspended in amber air. Staring fixed. Inside each another cathedral. Inside which a mammoth light. Shining on a grain of dust. Inside which another cathedral. Staring fixed on a wave of light. Suspended in a grain of dust. Inside which the borders break. Inside which there’s none to take, but walls of light suspended in grains of dust, each certainly must….

“How is it you create the cathedrals within the dust particles?” Billy naively asked

Cantor; “The question, Billy, is how do these damn dust particles keep getting into my cathedrals?!

Between every ray of light my dear boy is one infintely more bright!

Light upon light!

